Our correspondent Manjeet Neki spoke to Anal Gariwala, Joint Secretary, Ministry of AYUSH, on this entire program. The
Modi government is
preparing to celebrate International Yoga Day on a grand scale on June 21st. We have
Anil Gawal, Joint Secretary, Ministry of AYUSH, with us to talk about this. Anil
ji, what kind of preparations are there, especially on June 21st,
because this is the first time that yoga is being
celebrated at the international level.
See, the Government of India, Ministry of AYUSH has been given the
responsibility of
celebrating International Yoga Day in India, and
in other countries of the world, that responsibility has been given to the
Ministry of External Affairs.
We will have two main programs in this,
one is our mass
yoga demonstration on Rajpath, in which we are expecting 35,000 people to
come and
perform yoga. Their training
etc. is already going on. We have NCC
cadets in it, children from Delhi schools, people from
our armed police forces,
defense people, government officers,
diplomats and of course VIPs too.
We are inviting the Rebel Ministers and our MPs, the Secretaries and Under Secretaries and Additional Secretaries of the Department of the Government of India
and
for the training we have already made an instructional
DVD and a booklet
in Hindi and English, we have already
distributed it to everyone and have
requested them to practice it a little
and for that
also for training we have our Muraji de
National Institute of Yoga, our
regular courses there have started from 30th,
we are conducting three courses daily, whoever is
interested can do it there,
apart from this, for those who want to do it at home, there
is a DVD and we have distributed the booklet to everyone
[Music]